README.md, before:


TODO:

- [X] songlist: duration, tracknumber, starred
- [X] songlist: bitrate, size, format
- [X] songlist: currently playing icon on the left
- [X] songlist: self-updating playing icon on the left
- [X] songlist: Single click to select, double-click/enter to activate (start playback)
- [X] songlist: Hover-shows-play ?
  - [ ] songlist: hover play icon is not tab-able for focus when row is selected, only when hover...
- [X] Favorites page
  - [ ] remove the track number 
  - [ ] display artist
  - [ ] display album?
- [X] cache thumbnails on disk
  - [ ] load from file
  - [ ] reuse pixbuf for albumart
  - [ ] use a paintable instead ?
- [X] cache mp3 variant on disk
  - [X] fix song cache storing with original suffix instead of transcode format suffix
    - This caused us to save mp3 transcoded flac data with .flac extension
- [ ] find a way to handle difference between original and stream (transcoded) data better
- [X] replace gtk.image with gtk.picture? https://docs.gtk.org/gtk4/class.Picture.html
- [X] PlayerBar: title/album
- [X] PlayerBar: wire up now-playing to playerState
- [X] PlayerBar: CoverArt
- [X] PlayerBar: play/pause button
- [X] PlayerBar: find icons for buttons
  - [X] PlayerBar: Playing ProgressBar
  - [X] make play/pause icon slightly bigger than the others
  - [X] add star button to star/unstar currently playing song
  - [ ] model loading state
    - [ ] show loading state in playerbar
    - [ ] show loading state as a overlay icon and switch to paused?
  - [ ] add rating button
  - [ ] goto artist when clicking artist name
  - [ ] goto album when clicking song name or album artwork
- [ ] Icons for top bar pages
    - [] icon for Home page
    - [ ] icon for starred page
- HomePage
  - [ ] icon
  - [ ] Recently added: https://subsonic.org/pages/api.jsp#getAlbumList2 type=newest
  - [ ] recently played: https://subsonic.org/pages/api.jsp#getAlbumList2 type=recent
  - [ ] Most played: https://subsonic.org/pages/api.jsp#getAlbumList2 type=frequent
  - [ ] https://subsonic.org/pages/api.jsp#getTopSongs
- ArtistListing:
  - [X] add a circular artist thumbnail in the left prefix area
  - [ ] convert to using a ~AdwLeaflet~ `AdwNavigationSplitView`
  - [ ] model loading state when switching selected artist
- Make ArtistInfo page coverart prettier with:
  - [X] better design 
  - [ ] a blurred paintable background ?
    - Something like: https://github.com/neithern/g4music/blob/master/src/ui/paintables.vala#L357
- Make AlbumView page prettier with:
  - [ ] better design
  - [ ] a blurred paintable background ?
- [X] Make downloading song async
- [X] PlayQueue: implement a in-memory play queue
  - [X] PlayQueue: auto playback of next queue item
  - [X] PlayQueue: prev with position >= 4.0 seconds played means seekToStart
  - [ ] PlayQueue: enqueue a song that will be added after the current playing song in the playqueue
  - [ ] PlayQueue: Gapless playback of queue using gstreamer soon-finished signal / message + setting next-uri property
- [ ] Proper navigation
  - AdwNavigationView ?
  - AdwLeaflet + AdwClamp? see https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/gnome-music/-/blob/master/data/ui/ArtistAlbumsWidget.ui
- [ ] set up a sqlite database with migrations
  - perhaps there is a good android library for migrating sqlite ?
  - [ ] record what we have downloaded / want to keep offline
- [ ] Create a persistent store for server settings / authentication
  - [ ] store authentication in platform password storage / libsecret ?
- [X] Implement star/unstar
  - [ ] Optimistically update the local copy of Starred list based on star / unstar actions
- [ ] Playlist support
  - [ ] move Starred as a fake playlist under the playlists view 
  - browsing playlists
  - add song to playlist
  - remove song from playlist
  - play as playqueue
- [ ] Mpris support
    - https://github.com/NGMusic/mpris-java/blob/master/extensions/src/xerus/mpris/AbstractMPRISPlayer.kt
    - https://github.com/NGMusic/moodplayer/blob/master/src/desktop/java/xerus/mpris/MPRIS.kt
    - https://github.com/NGMusic/mpris-java/blob/master/extensions/test/xerus/mpris/MPRISPlayer.kt
    - https://github.com/NGMusic/mpris-java/blob/master/src/main/org/mpris/MediaPlayer2/DBusPlayer.kt
    - [ ] thumbnail
    - [ ] play/pause
    - [ ] skip


Later goals:
 - [ ] support multiple servers
 - [ ] could support chromecast
 - [ ] support the subsonic podcast features
 - [ ] support embedded image tags? https://github.com/neithern/g4music/blob/bf80b5cad448a57c635f01d0a315671fef045d14/src/gst/tag-parser.vala#L99

Non-goals:
 - Video support  
 - Jukebox support


My notes:

Adw CSS classes: https://gnome.pages.gitlab.gnome.org/libadwaita/doc/main/style-classes.html
https://docs.gtk.org/gtk4/css-properties.html
https://docs.gtk.org/gtk4/css-overview.html

AdwNavigationView:
https://gnome.pages.gitlab.gnome.org/libadwaita/doc/main/class.NavigationView.html
- push / pop AdwNavigationPage

AdwLeaflet:
https://gnome.pages.gitlab.gnome.org/libadwaita/doc/main/class.Leaflet.html

AdwClamp:
https://gnome.pages.gitlab.gnome.org/libadwaita/doc/main/class.Clamp.html

Commit message:

make resize retain aspect ratio

README.md, after:


TODO:

- [X] songlist: duration, tracknumber, starred
- [X] songlist: bitrate, size, format
- [X] songlist: currently playing icon on the left
- [X] songlist: self-updating playing icon on the left
- [X] songlist: Single click to select, double-click/enter to activate (start playback)
- [X] songlist: Hover-shows-play ?
  - [ ] songlist: hover play icon is not tab-able for focus when row is selected, only when hover...
- [X] Favorites page
  - [ ] remove the track number 
  - [ ] display artist
  - [ ] display album?
- [X] cache thumbnails on disk
  - [ ] use a paintable instead ? pixbuf is deprecated
  - [ ] switch load directly from cached file?
  - [ ] reuse the pixbuf for albumart
  - [X] make resize retain aspect ratio
- [X] cache mp3 variant on disk
  - [X] fix song cache storing with original suffix instead of transcode format suffix
    - This caused us to save mp3 transcoded flac data with .flac extension
- [ ] find a way to handle difference between original and stream (transcoded) data better
- [X] replace gtk.image with gtk.picture? https://docs.gtk.org/gtk4/class.Picture.html
- [X] PlayerBar: title/album
- [X] PlayerBar: wire up now-playing to playerState
- [X] PlayerBar: CoverArt
- [X] PlayerBar: play/pause button
- [X] PlayerBar: find icons for buttons
  - [X] PlayerBar: Playing ProgressBar
  - [X] make play/pause icon slightly bigger than the others
  - [X] add star button to star/unstar currently playing song
  - [ ] model loading state
    - [ ] show loading state in playerbar
    - [ ] show loading state as a overlay icon and switch to paused?
  - [ ] add rating button
  - [ ] goto artist when clicking artist name
  - [ ] goto album when clicking song name or album artwork
- [ ] Icons for top bar pages
    - [] icon for Home page
    - [ ] icon for starred page
- HomePage
  - [ ] icon
  - [ ] Recently added: https://subsonic.org/pages/api.jsp#getAlbumList2 type=newest
  - [ ] recently played: https://subsonic.org/pages/api.jsp#getAlbumList2 type=recent
  - [ ] Most played: https://subsonic.org/pages/api.jsp#getAlbumList2 type=frequent
  - [ ] https://subsonic.org/pages/api.jsp#getTopSongs
- ArtistListing:
  - [X] add a circular artist thumbnail in the left prefix area
  - [ ] convert to using a ~AdwLeaflet~ `AdwNavigationSplitView`
  - [ ] model loading state when switching selected artist
- Make ArtistInfo page coverart prettier with:
  - [X] better design 
  - [ ] a blurred paintable background ?
    - Something like: https://github.com/neithern/g4music/blob/master/src/ui/paintables.vala#L357
- Make AlbumView page prettier with:
  - [ ] better design
  - [ ] a blurred paintable background ?
- [X] Make downloading song async
- [X] PlayQueue: implement a in-memory play queue
  - [X] PlayQueue: auto playback of next queue item
  - [X] PlayQueue: prev with position >= 4.0 seconds played means seekToStart
  - [ ] PlayQueue: enqueue a song that will be added after the current playing song in the playqueue
  - [ ] PlayQueue: Gapless playback of queue using gstreamer soon-finished signal / message + setting next-uri property
- [ ] Proper navigation
  - AdwNavigationView ?
  - AdwLeaflet + AdwClamp? see https://gitlab.gnome.org/GNOME/gnome-music/-/blob/master/data/ui/ArtistAlbumsWidget.ui
- [ ] set up a sqlite database with migrations
  - perhaps there is a good android library for migrating sqlite ?
  - [ ] record what we have downloaded / want to keep offline
- [ ] Create a persistent store for server settings / authentication
  - [ ] store authentication in platform password storage / libsecret ?
- [X] Implement star/unstar
  - [ ] Optimistically update the local copy of Starred list based on star / unstar actions
- [ ] Playlist support
  - [ ] move Starred as a fake playlist under the playlists view 
  - browsing playlists
  - add song to playlist
  - remove song from playlist
  - play as playqueue
- [ ] Mpris support
    - https://github.com/NGMusic/mpris-java/blob/master/extensions/src/xerus/mpris/AbstractMPRISPlayer.kt
    - https://github.com/NGMusic/moodplayer/blob/master/src/desktop/java/xerus/mpris/MPRIS.kt
    - https://github.com/NGMusic/mpris-java/blob/master/extensions/test/xerus/mpris/MPRISPlayer.kt
    - https://github.com/NGMusic/mpris-java/blob/master/src/main/org/mpris/MediaPlayer2/DBusPlayer.kt
    - [ ] thumbnail
    - [ ] play/pause
    - [ ] skip


Later goals:
 - [ ] support multiple servers
 - [ ] could support chromecast
 - [ ] support the subsonic podcast features
 - [ ] support embedded image tags? https://github.com/neithern/g4music/blob/bf80b5cad448a57c635f01d0a315671fef045d14/src/gst/tag-parser.vala#L99

Non-goals:
 - Video support  
 - Jukebox support


My notes:

Adw CSS classes: https://gnome.pages.gitlab.gnome.org/libadwaita/doc/main/style-classes.html
https://docs.gtk.org/gtk4/css-properties.html
https://docs.gtk.org/gtk4/css-overview.html

AdwNavigationView:
https://gnome.pages.gitlab.gnome.org/libadwaita/doc/main/class.NavigationView.html
- push / pop AdwNavigationPage

AdwLeaflet:
https://gnome.pages.gitlab.gnome.org/libadwaita/doc/main/class.Leaflet.html

AdwClamp:
https://gnome.pages.gitlab.gnome.org/libadwaita/doc/main/class.Clamp.html
